docs/osa/knowledge-sync.md, before:

# Knowledge Sync

OSA includes a knowledge discovery system that syncs GitHub discussions and academic papers for HED-related content. This helps the assistant link users to relevant discussions and research, not as authoritative knowledge sources, but for discovery.

## Overview

The knowledge database stores:

- **GitHub Issues and PRs** from HED repositories (hed-specification, hed-schemas, hed-javascript)
- **Academic Papers** from OpenALEX, Semantic Scholar, and PubMed

!!! note "Discovery, Not Answers"
    The knowledge system is for **discovery only**. The assistant links users to relevant discussions ("There's a related issue: [link]") rather than answering from them.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Initialize the database
uv run osa sync init

# Sync GitHub issues/PRs
uv run osa sync github

# Sync academic papers
uv run osa sync papers

# Sync everything
uv run osa sync all

# Check sync status
uv run osa sync status
```

## CLI Commands

### `osa sync init`

Initialize the knowledge database. Creates the SQLite database with FTS5 full-text search support.

```bash
uv run osa sync init
```

### `osa sync github`

Sync GitHub issues and PRs from HED repositories.

```bash
# Sync all HED repos
uv run osa sync github

# Sync specific repo
uv run osa sync github -r hed-standard/hed-specification
```

Options:

- `-r, --repo`: Specific repository to sync (e.g., `hed-standard/hed-specification`)

**Synced repositories:**

- `hed-standard/hed-specification`
- `hed-standard/hed-schemas`
- `hed-standard/hed-javascript`

### `osa sync papers`

Sync academic papers from multiple sources.

```bash
# Sync from all sources
uv run osa sync papers

# Sync from specific source
uv run osa sync papers -s openalex
uv run osa sync papers -s semanticscholar
uv run osa sync papers -s pubmed

# Custom search query
uv run osa sync papers -q "BIDS event annotation"
```

Options:

- `-s, --source`: Paper source (`openalex`, `semanticscholar`, `pubmed`)
- `-q, --query`: Custom search query (default: "HED annotation" OR "Hierarchical Event Descriptors")

### `osa sync all`

Sync all knowledge sources (GitHub + papers).

```bash
uv run osa sync all
```

### `osa sync status`

Show sync status and database statistics.

```bash
uv run osa sync status
```

Example output:

```
Knowledge Database Status
─────────────────────────
Database: ~/.local/share/osa/knowledge/hed.db

GitHub Items:
  hed-standard/hed-specification: 45 issues, 23 PRs
  hed-standard/hed-schemas: 12 issues, 8 PRs
  hed-standard/hed-javascript: 18 issues, 5 PRs
  Last sync: 2026-01-12 02:00:00 UTC

Papers:
  OpenALEX: 42 papers
  Semantic Scholar: 38 papers
  PubMed: 25 papers
  Last sync: 2026-01-05 03:00:00 UTC
```

### `osa sync search`

Search the knowledge database (for testing).

```bash
uv run osa sync search "validation error"
```

## Automated Sync (Docker)

When running OSA in Docker, the scheduler automatically syncs knowledge sources:

| Source | Default Schedule | Environment Variable |
|--------|-----------------|---------------------|
| GitHub | Daily at 2am UTC | `SYNC_GITHUB_CRON` |
| Papers | Weekly Sunday 3am UTC | `SYNC_PAPERS_CRON` |

### Configuration

Configure via environment variables in your `.env` file:

```bash
# Enable/disable automated sync
SYNC_ENABLED=true

# Sync schedules (cron expressions, UTC timezone)
SYNC_GITHUB_CRON=0 2 * * *      # Daily at 2am
SYNC_PAPERS_CRON=0 3 * * 0      # Weekly Sunday at 3am

# Optional API keys for higher rate limits
GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_...
SEMANTIC_SCHOLAR_API_KEY=...
PUBMED_API_KEY=...
```

### Docker Compose

The included `docker-compose.yml` mounts a volume for database persistence:

```yaml
services:
  osa:
    volumes:
      - osa-data:/app/data

volumes:
  osa-data:
```

This ensures the knowledge database persists across container restarts.

## Manual Sync Trigger

You can manually trigger sync at any time:

```bash
# Inside Docker container
docker exec osa uv run osa sync all

# Or from host with CLI
uv run osa sync all
```

## Database Location

| Environment | Location |
|-------------|----------|
| Local (macOS) | `~/Library/Application Support/osa/knowledge/hed.db` |
| Local (Linux) | `~/.local/share/osa/knowledge/hed.db` |
| Docker | `/app/data/knowledge/hed.db` |

The location can be overridden with the `DATA_DIR` environment variable.

## API Keys

All API keys are optional but recommended for higher rate limits:

| API Key | Purpose | Get Key |
|---------|---------|---------|
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub API (issues/PRs) | [GitHub Settings](https://github.com/settings/tokens) |
| `SEMANTIC_SCHOLAR_API_KEY` | Semantic Scholar API | [S2 API](https://www.semanticscholar.org/product/api) |
| `PUBMED_API_KEY` | PubMed/NCBI API | [NCBI Settings](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/account/settings/) |

## Agent Tools

The HED assistant has access to knowledge discovery tools:

### `search_hed_discussions`

Search GitHub issues and PRs for related discussions.

```
"Can you find any discussions about validation errors?"
→ "There's a related discussion in hed-specification#123: [link]"
```

### `search_hed_papers`

Search academic papers related to HED.

```
"Are there papers about HED in neuroimaging?"
→ "I found a relevant paper: 'HED Annotation Best Practices' [link]"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Sync fails with "gh: command not found"

The `gh` CLI is required for GitHub sync. Install it:

```bash
# macOS
brew install gh

# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt install gh
```

### Rate limiting

If you hit rate limits, configure API keys in your `.env` file. Without keys:

- GitHub: 60 requests/hour
- Semantic Scholar: ~100 requests/5 minutes
- PubMed: 3 requests/second

With keys, limits are significantly higher.

### Database corruption

If the database becomes corrupted, delete and reinitialize:

```bash
rm ~/.local/share/osa/knowledge/hed.db
uv run osa sync init
uv run osa sync all
```

Commit message:

docs: update OSA knowledge sync documentation
- Add hed-python to list of synced GitHub repositories
- Document automatic paper deduplication feature

docs/osa/knowledge-sync.md, after:

# Knowledge Sync

OSA includes a knowledge discovery system that syncs GitHub discussions and academic papers for HED-related content. This helps the assistant link users to relevant discussions and research, not as authoritative knowledge sources, but for discovery.

## Overview

The knowledge database stores:

- **GitHub Issues and PRs** from HED repositories (hed-specification, hed-schemas, hed-javascript)
- **Academic Papers** from OpenALEX, Semantic Scholar, and PubMed

!!! note "Discovery, Not Answers"
    The knowledge system is for **discovery only**. The assistant links users to relevant discussions ("There's a related issue: [link]") rather than answering from them.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Initialize the database
uv run osa sync init

# Sync GitHub issues/PRs
uv run osa sync github

# Sync academic papers
uv run osa sync papers

# Sync everything
uv run osa sync all

# Check sync status
uv run osa sync status
```

## CLI Commands

### `osa sync init`

Initialize the knowledge database. Creates the SQLite database with FTS5 full-text search support.

```bash
uv run osa sync init
```

### `osa sync github`

Sync GitHub issues and PRs from HED repositories.

```bash
# Sync all HED repos
uv run osa sync github

# Sync specific repo
uv run osa sync github -r hed-standard/hed-specification
```

Options:

- `-r, --repo`: Specific repository to sync (e.g., `hed-standard/hed-specification`)

**Synced repositories:**

- `hed-standard/hed-specification`
- `hed-standard/hed-schemas`
- `hed-standard/hed-javascript`
- `hed-standard/hed-python`

### `osa sync papers`

Sync academic papers from multiple sources.

```bash
# Sync from all sources
uv run osa sync papers

# Sync from specific source
uv run osa sync papers -s openalex
uv run osa sync papers -s semanticscholar
uv run osa sync papers -s pubmed

# Custom search query
uv run osa sync papers -q "BIDS event annotation"
```

Options:

- `-s, --source`: Paper source (`openalex`, `semanticscholar`, `pubmed`)
- `-q, --query`: Custom search query (default: "HED annotation" OR "Hierarchical Event Descriptors")

!!! info "Automatic Deduplication"
    Papers are automatically deduplicated using fuzzy title matching. The same paper from different sources (e.g., OpenALEX and Semantic Scholar) is only shown once in search results.

### `osa sync all`

Sync all knowledge sources (GitHub + papers).

```bash
uv run osa sync all
```

### `osa sync status`

Show sync status and database statistics.

```bash
uv run osa sync status
```

Example output:

```
Knowledge Database Status
─────────────────────────
Database: ~/.local/share/osa/knowledge/hed.db

GitHub Items:
  hed-standard/hed-specification: 45 issues, 23 PRs
  hed-standard/hed-schemas: 12 issues, 8 PRs
  hed-standard/hed-javascript: 18 issues, 5 PRs
  Last sync: 2026-01-12 02:00:00 UTC

Papers:
  OpenALEX: 42 papers
  Semantic Scholar: 38 papers
  PubMed: 25 papers
  Last sync: 2026-01-05 03:00:00 UTC
```

### `osa sync search`

Search the knowledge database (for testing).

```bash
uv run osa sync search "validation error"
```

## Automated Sync (Docker)

When running OSA in Docker, the scheduler automatically syncs knowledge sources:

| Source | Default Schedule | Environment Variable |
|--------|-----------------|---------------------|
| GitHub | Daily at 2am UTC | `SYNC_GITHUB_CRON` |
| Papers | Weekly Sunday 3am UTC | `SYNC_PAPERS_CRON` |

### Configuration

Configure via environment variables in your `.env` file:

```bash
# Enable/disable automated sync
SYNC_ENABLED=true

# Sync schedules (cron expressions, UTC timezone)
SYNC_GITHUB_CRON=0 2 * * *      # Daily at 2am
SYNC_PAPERS_CRON=0 3 * * 0      # Weekly Sunday at 3am

# Optional API keys for higher rate limits
GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_...
SEMANTIC_SCHOLAR_API_KEY=...
PUBMED_API_KEY=...
```

### Docker Compose

The included `docker-compose.yml` mounts a volume for database persistence:

```yaml
services:
  osa:
    volumes:
      - osa-data:/app/data

volumes:
  osa-data:
```

This ensures the knowledge database persists across container restarts.

## Manual Sync Trigger

You can manually trigger sync at any time:

```bash
# Inside Docker container
docker exec osa uv run osa sync all

# Or from host with CLI
uv run osa sync all
```

## Database Location

| Environment | Location |
|-------------|----------|
| Local (macOS) | `~/Library/Application Support/osa/knowledge/hed.db` |
| Local (Linux) | `~/.local/share/osa/knowledge/hed.db` |
| Docker | `/app/data/knowledge/hed.db` |

The location can be overridden with the `DATA_DIR` environment variable.

## API Keys

All API keys are optional but recommended for higher rate limits:

| API Key | Purpose | Get Key |
|---------|---------|---------|
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub API (issues/PRs) | [GitHub Settings](https://github.com/settings/tokens) |
| `SEMANTIC_SCHOLAR_API_KEY` | Semantic Scholar API | [S2 API](https://www.semanticscholar.org/product/api) |
| `PUBMED_API_KEY` | PubMed/NCBI API | [NCBI Settings](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/account/settings/) |

## Agent Tools

The HED assistant has access to knowledge discovery tools:

### `search_hed_discussions`

Search GitHub issues and PRs for related discussions.

```
"Can you find any discussions about validation errors?"
→ "There's a related discussion in hed-specification#123: [link]"
```

### `search_hed_papers`

Search academic papers related to HED.

```
"Are there papers about HED in neuroimaging?"
→ "I found a relevant paper: 'HED Annotation Best Practices' [link]"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Sync fails with "gh: command not found"

The `gh` CLI is required for GitHub sync. Install it:

```bash
# macOS
brew install gh

# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt install gh
```

### Rate limiting

If you hit rate limits, configure API keys in your `.env` file. Without keys:

- GitHub: 60 requests/hour
- Semantic Scholar: ~100 requests/5 minutes
- PubMed: 3 requests/second

With keys, limits are significantly higher.

### Database corruption

If the database becomes corrupted, delete and reinitialize:

```bash
rm ~/.local/share/osa/knowledge/hed.db
uv run osa sync init
uv run osa sync all
```
